---
title: Rise and fall of an idea
summary: Thoughts on my first StartupWeekend participation
date: 2013-01-27
tag: SWcologne
permalink: /rise-and-fall-of-an-idea-en.html
---

I want to talk about my experience at the Cologne
[StartupWeekend](http://cologne.startupweekend.org) this past weekend.
I decided to join the Idea 'myDoctor' as it represented something I could relate
to: waiting at the doctor sucks and anything to improve the scheduling seemed
like a good idea. On friday evening a team of 6 gathered around the idea and
started brainstorming. We quickly came to the conclusion, that our market were
the professionals and not the patients. And the former had no incentive to
optimize the experience for the customer: a full waiting room is the best thing
for a doctor as it means he can grab the next patient as soon as he has free
time. As for the patients, they would come back the next day, as their pain will
not go away. So there is a great imbalance of powers. After realizing this we
decided to focus on reminding patients of recurring checkup, that are necessary
e.g. at the dentist. The problem here, was that we could not validate that
particular customer segment on a weekend. Thus we pivoted towards hairdressers.
Everyone needs recurring visits to the hairdresser and if we drafted a reminder
services we could possibly increase the frequency of visits. That was the value
proposition. We prepared a pitch and went out to meet some hairdressers. The
answers were unanimously: "We don't need such a service". There a 3 main reasons
for that:

 1. Hairdressers fix the next appointment with their client right at the
 checkout
 2. Hairdresser do not use a computer but a paper calendar
 3. Customer are reminded of going to the hairdresser each morning when looking
 in the mirror.

While the last point is probably specific the hairdressers, the other two are
not. Especially the use of paper calendars where appointment are pencilled-in
(and made through the telefone) are a terrific tool for scheduling that has many
advantages (central, collision free, resillient, &hellip;) and are really
difficult to substitute by a digital solution (I dare you!). The act of
scheduling the next appointment at the end of the current is also something that
is not specific to the customer segement. After these results the team found
that there is no room for another pivot and that the idea had to be dropped.
Thus we gave up (maybe prematurely).
